Docs improvements (#8641)
blakeblackshear/frigate: docs/docs/guides/getting_started.md

title: Getting started
---

# Getting Started

## Setting up hardware

> This section guides you through setting up a server with Debian Bullseye and Docker If you already have an environment with Linux and Docker installed, you can continue to [Installing Frigate](#installing-frigate) below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section guides you through setting up a server with Debian Bullseye and Docker. If you already have an environment with Linux and Docker installed, you can continue to [Installing Frigate](#installing-frigate) below.
```

### Install Debian 12 (Bookworm)

There are many guides on how to install Debian Server, so this will be an abbreviated guide.

1. Download the small installation image from the [Debian website](https://www.debian.org/distrib/netinst)
1. Flash the ISO to a USB device
1. Boot your device from USB
1. Install the minimum
   1. SSH server
1. Login as root to add user to sudoers
1. Log back into the server with your non-root user
1. Setup automatic security updates for the OS

### Install Docker

1. Install Docker Engine (not Docker Desktop) using the [official docs](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)
   1. Specifically, follow the steps in the [Install using the apt repository](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/#install-using-the-repository) section
2. Add your user to the docker group as described in the [Linux postinstall steps](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)

## Installing Frigate

### Setup directories

> Frigate requires a valid config file to start. The following directory structure is the bare minimum to get started. Once Frigate is running, you can use the built-in config editor with validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Frigate requires a valid config file to start. The following directory structure is the bare minimum to get started. Once Frigate is running, you can use the built-in config editor which supports config validation.
```
